# credit-risk-classification 
## Overview of the Analysis
The purpose of this analysis is to create models to predict the creditworithness of borrowers using supervised learning. 

#### Libraries and methods used to determine the models includes: 
* Pandas
* NumpPy 
* Scikit-Learn (sklearn)
    * LogisticRegression 
* Imbalanced-Learn (imblearn)
    * RandomOverSampler 
* sklearn.model_selection 
    * train_test_split 
* sklearn.metrics
    * balanced_accuracy
    * confusion_matrix
    * classification_report 

#### Data
The data used for this analysis came from the [Lending CSV file](Credit_Risk/Resources/lending_data.csv) read into a Pandas DataFrame which was split into `labels (y)` and `features (X)`. 
* Lables (y): 
    * loan_status 
* Features (X): 
    * loan_size
    * interest_rate
    * borrower_income
    * debt_to_income
    * num_of_accounts
    * derogatory_marks
    * total_debt
    * loan_status 
#### Process 
1. **Model 1**
    * Create a prediction model using the `trained data` and `LogisticRegression`. 
    * Evaluate the model by: 
        * `balanced_accuracy_score`
        * `confusion_matrix`
        * print(`classification_report`)

2. **Model 2**
    * Create a the `resampled trained data` using `RandomOverSampler`. 
    * Create a prediction model using the `resampled trained data` and `LogisiticRegression`. 
    * Evaulate the model by: 
        * `balanced_accuracy_score`
        * `confusion_matrix`
        * print(`classification_report`)
## Results 
* Machine Learning Model 1: 
    * Acccuracy is 99% shows a near perfect model. 
    * Labels:
        * `0 (healthy loan)` 
            * Value counts: 75036
            * Precision of 1 (100%) shows no false positives. 
            * Recall of 99% shows little false negatives. 
            * f1-score of 1 (100%) shows a perfect model. 
        * `1 (high-risk loan)`
            * Value counts: 2500
            * Precision of 85% shows low false positives. 
            * Recall of 91% shows very low false negatives. 
            * f1-score of 88% shows a near perfect model. 

* Machine Learning Model 2: 
    * Accuracy is 99% shows a near perfect model. 
    * Labels: 
        * `0 (healthy loan)`
            * Value counts: 
            * Precision of 1 (100%) shows no false positives. 
            * Recall of 99% shows very little false negatives. 
            * f1-score of 1 (100%) shows a perfect model. 
        * `1 (high-risk loan)`
            * Value counts: 
            * Precison of 84% shows low false positives. 
            * Recall of 99% shows very low false negatives. 
            * f1-score of 91% shows a near perfect model. 
## Summary 
The purpose of this analysis is to identify the creditworthiness of borrowers factoring in the values `0` and `1`. Since this analysis is based on loan risk, predictions for the `1`'s are more important. Although both models produced a 99% accuracy, `Model 2` is a better model as the f1-score is higher by 3%. 

### References 
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for exucational purposes only. 